- [Woman] Let's take a look at the features
of the GRPC framework.
Firstly, as we said, it is more efficient
for interprocess or interservice communication.
Why? That has got two main reasons.
The first one, it uses HTTP/2 protocol.
Now this is a binary protocol.
So as opposed to HTTP/1, which is tech spaced,
the data that is transmitted in HTTP/2,
is always in a binary format.
Which means the conversion and reconversion
from binary to text and text to binary
that we spoke of earlier is no longer needed.
Secondly, it implements protocol buffers.
Protocol buffers or proto buffs,
as they're commonly known as,
is the interface definition language in GRPC.
Proto buffs make it even faster to transmit messages
between GRPC clients and servers.
Next is GRPC has strictly defined interfaces.
It promotes contract first approach,
which means that you define the service contract first,
before you work on any implementation details
of the service.
This makes it a consistent, robust
and reliable implementation.
All the types for the messages
defined in the service contract are strongly typed,
which means there will never be incompatibility
or interoperability issues for parsing data on client
or server site in distributed applications.
GRPC helps you build polyglot services,
which means if you define the service contract
in proto buffers in the IDL,
after that, you can pick a language of your choice
to generate the client and the server stubs,
which are required for GRPC communication.
GRPC supports a wide variety of programming languages
that we have,
and you can pick up one from that list.
GRPC supports bidirectional streaming.
Means the client and the server both
can send and receive a stream of messages.
Additionally, the building capability
for cross-cutting concerns,
that any microservices requires today,
like authentication, error handling
comes bundled with the GRPC framework.
It integrates very well with cloud-native platforms.
So metrics and monitoring that we employ for cloud platforms
supported by most of the tools like Prometheus,
gladly access GRPC as their communication protocol.
Owing to these advantages, it is widely accepted
and adopted by a number of large enterprises
like Cisco, Docker, Netflix, et cetera.
Let's also take a look at the disadvantages of GRPC.
As of today, there is a limited capability
inside the browser to call a GRPC service.
It is specifically designed to make
back-end services interact with each other more efficiently.
Secondly, the request and response data,
since it's binary is not going to be human readable anymore
but this is by design.
So even if it is viewed as a disadvantage, it is not
because it's much faster and efficient.
Service definition changes
could pose a problem in development.
When you change your IDL definition,
that is the proto buffers file,
that could be a need or there most probably is a need
to regenerate the client and the server stubs.
But then this is something that we are used to
because when we try to work with SOAP specification
we had WSDL, which had a similar setup.